Hello, I'm Andrew Mayne and this is the
OpenAI podcast. On today's episode,
we're talking about Imagen 2.0 with
researcher Kenji Hada and product lead
Adele Lee. They'll discuss why the new
model represents such a major leap
forward, the evaluations that mattered
most during development, and what people
are creating with it now that it's
widely available.
If DALL-E was the Stone Age, Imagen 2.0
is the Renaissance. It's not only great
artistically and aesthetically, but also
incorporates, you know, science, art,
architecture all in one image. We looked
at it and we're like, all right, this is
better than Imagen 1.
Adele, tell me a little bit about how
you became a product manager here. So, I
joined OpenAI a little over 2 years ago.
And before OpenAI, I was an investor my
entire career. Oh, wow.
>> So, I was in private equity and spent 3
years at Redpoint Ventures investing in
AI and software companies. And when I
first joined OpenAI, it was for a
completely different role. I was
thinking about how do we build out our
data and compute infrastructure. And
over time made my way over to the
product side and for the last 6 months
have been working on Imagen. It's it's
interesting how you saw yourself going
from one role then finding yourself into
this space here, which is kind of cool,
you know, to think about the idea that
you have this sort of, you know, ability
to be useful in different ways.
Absolutely. And I think the role of a
product manager is just to do the job
that needs to be done, no matter what it
is. And for Imagen in particular, it's
been really awesome to flex a lot of
different muscles when it comes to
building products, working with
researchers like Kenji, but also
thinking about like, what is the gap in
the market today that we want to fill
and what is the opportunity that we want
to grasp here? It's not the same market
that it was a year ago when we first
released Imagen 1.0. Now, it's a very
different landscape. There are multiple
image generation makers out there. Um,
and ChatGPT is a very different company
and product itself, too. And so,
um, really thinking about the evolution
of Imagen and its role within ChatGPT
has been really, really exciting to me.
Kenji, how did you end up working on
images? Uh actually like when I first
started at OpenAI, I also started about
2 years ago. Um
I was working on like some random audio
project initially. Just was my first
project. And then at the time I just
found my way just working on helping
them work on uh images 1.0 the prior to
the launch. Um
and so gradually I moved more and more
onto the project and I became full-time
on it basically. What is the reception
been like right now for the model? In
the last 2 weeks since we launched the
model, usage is up more than 50% more
than 1.5 billion images are generated
every week on chat GPT. And we've seen
viral trends emerge across the world. Um
all the way from trends in Asia for
color analysis and stickers to US where
crayon and scribble are going viral. Um
but also a lot of people exploring
emergent use cases. And I think it shows
the dynamic range of the model but also
how people are able to visually grasp
the advancement of the model almost
immediately. I think the visual uh
communication reaction that we've seen
from our users for them to say, "Hey,
this is the best, highest fidelity,
highest quality in aesthetic model that
we've seen." has been really awesome.
This
felt like a really big shift almost
worthy of maybe not even being an images
two but almost like just a new paradigm
because just the capabilities are
through the roof.
What made that possible? When we started
working on this project, I think we sat
down and we discussed
what is the step change of capability
and use cases that we wanted to build
towards.
Um and we believe that image generation
has the ability to do so much more than
it [clears throat] what it does today.
You could distill every single output uh
or visual content that you see today
into an image. And so that was the
mandate that we sought out to improve.
Um And with this 2.0 model, we've
improved on various different
dimensions.
One is text rendering, the ability for
text on a page is so much better
fidelity. The language and words
actually make sense and they're actual
words.
Um
The second [clears throat] of all is
multilingual. So we've really focused on
making this model work in various
different languages. And we're already
seeing that people across the world in
Asia and Europe are really resonating
with these advancements. Um the third is
photorealism. I think we really saw a
lot of feedback from our previous models
that the output wasn't very realistic or
altered their face or their bodies. And
so one of our mandates was how do we
actually make the image feel like more
like yourself. And so all the things
that you think that the model knows, it
does because it has imbued the knowledge
of the world into
its conscience and is able to visually
communicate that back to you as a user.
And so putting that all together
I think we really get a state of the art
image generation model that is the best
aesthetic model out there on the market
right now.
That really represents a new paradigm
for image generation, which is a huge
part of I think AI progress at large
that that we have the opportunity to
work on here. We often listen back or
listen to feedback on social media, too.
So we kind of just take all these things
and basically are just aware of it and
try to make sure that they're mitigated
or completely fixed in some cases in in
the next iteration. What kind of use
cases are you seeing? What are you
seeing people do with this now? I think
one that's particularly close to like
the research team as a general is like
infographics, text.
I think text in images is like so much
better nowadays. So
I think it just opens up a lot more
productive use cases. And
from like the research side, we kind of
think, you know,
image generation used to all always be
about fun and maybe like
unproductive things, but now we're
really seeing steps forward into
productivity and
image generation for any type of use
case that you can imagine it for. So,
you mentioned text. I remember the early
models,
no disrespect to chimpanzees, but
getting it to spell like OpenAI even
looked like a chimp did it. And then now
I'm looking at pages of text and finely
detailed stuff and I know that as models
get smarter, variable binding, the
ability to put things next to each other
improves, but this was just a big
improvement. Yeah.
But I don't think it's like completely
unexpected. I think you you see a lot of
growth in between
Well, first you see between DALL-E 3
and, you know, GPT Images 1. There was
um
if you ask for a grid of random objects,
you
you go from maybe like five to eight in
DALL-E 3 to maybe around 16 in Images 1.
And then with 1.5, we went to about 25
to 36
>> Mhm. um consistently. And I think now we
could probably do more 100, I think.
This is like a test that we might do
internally is just um
we just ask ChatGPT
give me a list of 100 random objects,
right?
>> Yeah. And then we just send that to our
image generator and see how how many are
correct. And usually, you know, it'll
get almost all 100 correct.
Uh and that's but you see the the
constant growth over time. So, I don't
think it's like completely unexpected.
It's just a steady pace. That was a test
I used to use for like the really old
models back with like Ada Lovelace and
Curie like list 100 science fiction
books and then some of them would get by
the time I got to like 22 it just start
repeating stuff as the release of the
model reached the end of it. So, we've
seen stuff too like 360, 360-degree
panoramas. How did that happen? Yeah,
that really came from the emergent
capability of the model, which is the
ability to render images in any aspect
ratio. We discovered that people were
generating really long, amazing
panoramics, you know, skinny bookmarks
as well. And one of the cool
capabilities of the model is that not
only were you able to generate images in
this panoramic aspect ratio, but you
could also render images in the style of
360. Mhm. Um and we saw that it was
really fun to actually view these images
in a 360 world itself. And so that was a
really fun feature that we ended up
adding into the product and it's
available on ChatGPT on web and mobile
right now. First thing I did was I made
a version of dogs playing poker. You put
that in there so you could sit there
like you're one of the dogs looking
around in there, which was not something
I expected, but it's it's it's fun.
>> Yeah, I mean, it's really awesome to see
how people are exploring new use cases
and fun things that they're creating
with the model.
Um even far beyond what we expected
users to be using it for. Think when we
were designing the model, um we were
really deliberate in understanding what
people really wanted to see from image
generation. Um there was a lot of latent
demand in image generation. You know,
people were mostly using it for personal
use cases, but we definitely saw a lot
of inklings of uh people wanting to push
the model in certain directions that the
model wasn't good at. So, text rendering
was definitely one of those dimensions
that we really wanted to improve on.
Multilingual was another. And I think
world understanding generally is so much
better in this model. And that typically
means that, you know, now people online
are sharing a bunch of examples of them
creating image done for all different
kinds of use cases that we didn't even
think, you know, existed out there. So,
I think the model's understanding of
aesthetic beauty across multiple
different outputs, whether that it's
like a fun meme, um an image for a
5-year-old, versus a professional uh
consulting deck, um the expansion of
opportunity and outputs is has been
amazing to see in this latest model.
It's funny, too, how one of the things
that was trending was
taking popular images or photos of
people and then having the model make
like kind of janky looking Microsoft
Paint versions of it.
>> Yes.
And did you think that was something you
would see was that people are going to
use this incredibly capable tool to then
go make, you know, these silly looking
things?
>> Yeah, it's funny cuz it takes a lot of
intelligence to actually create
something that is imperfect.
>> That's what I tell people all the time.
>> Yeah, and it's definitely very
interesting in the viral trends that
we're seeing online right now. Um one
thing that I think people are really
striving for is authenticity,
imperfection, nostalgia. We're seeing
that in the MS Paint prompt, crayons, um
all different kinds of generations that
people are creating. And that really
feels like the theme of consumers is
they want to interact with AI in a very
authentic, imperfect way. They want to
show their imperfections and use AI to
help make them look good, but also show
a more fun and goofy side of themselves.
And I think that's self-expression via
AI is something that we're really
excited about. And you know, I think
it's really part of our mission as a
company to make it easier for people to
learn more and distribute that
intelligence, but also um letting them
express a version of themselves that
maybe wasn't possible before. Kenji, was
there a moment with this model where
you're saying to yourself, "Wow, I think
I think this is ready to go." You know,
as it's training, we take a checkpoint
and then like we just sample from it,
right? And just see, "Okay, how good is
this thing?" And I think like
we just sampled the checkpoint of a
model of an image and
we looked at it and we're like, "All
right, this is better than images one."
>> [laughter]
>> We were just like, "Okay." I remember
watching the iteration of one of the
early versions of DALL-E and how at
first it was sort of the wispy, sort of
weird, sort of the tendril sort of thing
and talking to one of the researchers
like, "Is is that going to go away?"
It's like, "I think two probably two
runs away from that." And then just like
that, the The to predict that was
amazing to me. And all of a sudden,
everything got crisp and clear. Yeah.
And then also like looking at
you know, years ago I played with like
you know, GANs and like doing those
things. You you have to squint and say,
"I think it's a pickup truck." Or
something like that. So, it's
interesting what you see as you say,
"Okay, this just all of a sudden got
much better." Yeah, I mean it was just
very obvious. You just You just take the
early checkpoint, you just sample an
image from it, and then you just sample
an image from
uh you know, images one, and you just
look at the two, and you're just
it's just
it's Why don't I take this garbage. This
I forgot what the image was. It might
have just been like a picture of like a
woman at a sea on the seaside, like you
know, overlooking a seaside. We just
looked at it, and we're like, "All
right. There's like no no question."
>> Yeah, that was the big the big the big
jump was the photorealism of going from
something that looked that was more of a
a glossy idealized magazine cover to
something that looked like a really good
photograph. So, help me understand like
besides just more compute, how did this
happen? How did you get a model that's
much better, and also that doesn't take
an hour to generate an image? The times
are still I I remember in the DALL-E
days, like we would literally have to
you know, tell tell us what you want,
and then an hour later it'd be on
Instagram. To now, these things are in
ChatGPT, and it's faster. How is it
getting both more intelligent and you're
maintaining the same speed? I think we
learned a lot in each release, like
between one, 1.5, now two. And so, we
take each each of the learnings that
we've made, and we've you know,
like for example, speed, right? Um
you know, one of the things is like,
"Oh, can we make the model more token
efficient?" Or or something like that.
And
uh you know, we did a lot of work to
make it to make it put produce very good
images with less tokens. I think the
post training for this model was very
interesting in the sense that we really
had to think about not only does the
model understand world knowledge and how
things look and you know, science
concepts, math, etc. in an image, but
also what is the taste that will
resonate with users? You know, what
makes a model or output beautiful? Um
how do you make it look realistic? Um
these are all questions that we had to
grapple with when we were post-training
this model. Um because I think that one
of the things that was really important
for us was that this model was the
strongest aesthetic model out there
right now.
>> Mhm. Which means that it has um more
creativity um in various different
outputs, no matter what that output is,
if it's a professional output or a
personal output. And so that range of
training and the range of use case, I
think made training this model a very
interesting problem. Do you have any
personal favorite benchmark tests you
like to do? Things you just say, "I want
to see it make an image of this." I have
a eval that I call the me me me eval.
Okay.
>> [laughter]
>> It's essentially a hundred photos of
myself
and my friends and my family.
Um and I put everyone in goofy
positions. I have about a card or
birthday
um for every single person. Um and I
think it's a really great eval in the
sense that
uh you only know the people around your,
you know, faces the best. Um you also
want to create funny things with the
model and do things that are relevant.
And so
one thing for me as the product manager
um that I testing is not only is the raw
capability of the model really great,
but also does ChatGPT understand what I
want in that context? You know, ChatGPT
remembers, you know, that I have a
brother, that I have a mom and dad, um
and what they like to do. And so does
the model accurately know how to insert
pieces of personalization in the moments
that matter in the images. These are
things that I'm testing for.
How about you? Besides the grid one I
mentioned earlier, that's probably the
one I use the most. For a while, I think
Divya and I were doing a lot about
photorealism. We were trying in real
hard to push on that. Um
I just basically I know Divya's favorite
one was like
a woman holding an a jug of orange
juice. I don't know if you see
>> [laughter]
>> there's like so many
images of a woman holding a jug of
orange juice. I actually feel like the
researchers had a more standard set of
images like that they like to
>> [laughter]
>> feed on.
>> Yeah, and you get like the standard can
you do somebody writing with their left
hand and a watch on their right hand and
a clock showing this. I think the big
the big leap of the images like probably
one or 1.5 was like a half full glass of
wine. The wine glass full to the brim.
Yeah, full to the brim. Yeah, that's
exactly. And there were ways I was able
to prompt it to do it, but it was
it was really had to get to really
descriptive like, you know, red liquid
inside this. This one is so fun to
prompt. There was a thing people said,
"Oh, can it do like, you know, can it do
like pixel accurate pixel image style
art?" Somebody was like, "No, it can't."
And I when I hear that, I'm like, "Okay,
let's try." And I found out if I gave it
like a a 64 by 64 grid and I said go go
draw the art in there, it did. It just
was able to put art into there and that
was amazing to see those kinds of
results. And that's the promptability of
this is insane. How do you plan for
that? Does it just happen? You're like,
"Oh, wow, this is better understanding
this." People come to Image Gen with
very vague prompts. Yeah.
Make it better. Make me look better.
You know, make me cuter. All these
things are really vague and I think it's
really the job of the model and the
harness to distill that into actually
what users want. And I think that's a
personality of the model that we trained
over time
that we've really harnessed the power
for.
And honestly, I think it also yields a
lot of really surprising results that
people may not expect and that surprise
is just part of the fun of using Image
Gen. I've seen like two kinds of
prompting sort of emerge and I remember
back with DALL-E,
I thought like, "Oh, I'm a prompt
engineer. I'll be great at this. Like
I'll be really good at this." And I and
I and I'd make a raccoon in space and
I'd feel proud. And I'd see an artist
somebody who wasn't a prompt engineer,
somebody who actually came from that
world and I'd watch them use their
language and they were doing amazing
things. Yeah. And that's that seems like
it's that still holding true.
Definitely. I mean, we work with a group
of artists um very closely when we
developed this model. And we're very
inspired by artists, designers,
marketers, all these different
professions that I think have a
different way of approaching their
profession. And one of the things that
was very important for us is we wanted
to take the inspiration as well as the
best practices for those professions and
distill that into the way that people
interact with the model. And so that's
something we've deliberately tried to
focus on. Um one hack that I've seen
work really well is the ability to
upload inspiration or context into the
model and the model has an incredible
ability to take the spirit of that
context and translate it into the
output. Well, it's it's interesting
because I think that a lot of people
worry that oh, I just push a button I
get something beautiful. And and each
each model that gets better. It's easier
as you said to not have to put a lot of
effort into it. But when people do put
effort into it, they are getting even
more amazing results. And it seems like
actually that if you're artistically
inclined, you're getting even greater
control because now it like you said, it
understands more about what you're
talking about when you talk about depth
of field and these other things or
whatever you're trying to do. And as you
mentioned, it was exciting to see with
earlier models artists who said, oh, I
gave it my originals and it gave me
these variations and I know which one
works and just seeing that is this real
creative amplifier. Yeah, definitely. I
think
having creative direction or taste or
judgment and bring that to the model is
the best way to push it further.
I think one thing about this model that
I'm really excited about is how it
expands the creative outlet for people.
Um I think the ability to create
multiple different styles or types or
variations has never been easier than
with this Imagen model.
>> And I think it's also understanding of
different contexts, like the way that
it's able to shift what it's like to be
generating architectural diagram all the
way to the aesthetics of a children's
book. Um the ability for it to move so
seamlessly across these factors has been
really awesome. The ability to do great
infographics and diagrams is very
powerful. What kind of feedback have you
been getting from people in research and
education? We actually have an internal
alpha channel um
where we test our models. Uh
And in that there's like a subchannel
dedicated specifically towards educators
of any
um level, like elementary school
students all the way up to graduate
level. One of the coolest things I saw
was there was a biology professor and he
put like these graduate level textbook
rendering
pages of things I had no clue about and
he said it was
perfectly accurate. I think the ability
for this model to distill very complex
topics um into something that is really
easy to understand within an image is
one of its strongest capabilities. And
we've seen this with students, with
teachers who are using Imagen to learn
different concepts, to also help them
create study guides, um to help also
create personalized content. I think
personalized learning is a huge trend
that we're very passionate about. And I
think the Imagen model helps you as a
teacher um create something that every
kid can understand in their own language
and their own preference. And that is
something that we're really excited
about. Um we're thinking about this in
the context of also how do we bring more
of the elements of Imagen into ChatGPT
at large, so that when people are trying
to learn concepts, um we're teaching
them with Imagen. I remember when I was
in school and kind of prior to a lot of
kind of multimedia blowing up, posters
were a big thing. Classroom posters
explaining stuff. This really reminded
me of how powerful an infographic can be
because
it allows you to bring as much attention
as you want to it. Yeah. And you can
spend the time looking at it and seeing
it and you can put a lot more detail
into it. I think one really awesome
visual shift that I've seen with Imagen
is that now in internal presentations,
over 50% of the slides are created with
Imagen. Um and that permeation of
communication via images is so powerful
when you're trying to explain your
concepts or illustrate what you mean.
And I think infographics and the text
rendering capability, as well as the
composition of the text on the page, is
incredibly powerful with this model. The
model's understanding of not only what
to say, but how to present it, is a
superpower.
Um and I'm really excited about future
explorations of this where we can think
about, how do we make this better? Um
how do we improve the composition, um
the different kinds of outputs, all and
also make it editable in the product. Um
these are directions that we we're
really excited about. How do you see the
progression of this? This is great, but
typically anytime I talk to somebody at
OpenAI about what they're working on,
they're like, "Yeah, this is good, but I
think we're still super early in
exploring all the different use cases
that people are really trying to push
the model with. Um and so one of the
things that we're really excited about
um is what is that next um stage for
Imagen, um which is to create the
creative agent. Ultimately, the agent
that can work alongside you, be your
creative assistant, um and really
understand how you work, what your
preferences are, what is the output that
you want to get to, um and build the
product and model ecosystem that helps
users kind of have a personal interior
designer, personal architect, um
personal, you know, wedding planner,
etc. all in one image on. I tell you
another thing that was kind of amazing
was like all right books and so like
every now and then a book come out I've
got to change my social media headers.
And I just went and I said, "Oh, find my
book cover and write you know create a
post you know create appropriate size
social media header that I can put on X
or Facebook or whatever." Like well
let's see first shot. First shot, right
aspect ratio, everything. We basically
did that from the start or trained the
models to be good at that from the
start. I remember like I worked on the
initial D risks of of basically
it could do any
aspect ratio that you ask.
>> Yeah. Yeah, you can now
really just easily specify the outcome
that you want. Like in the case of
yourself you're like I want promotional
material. I don't have an idea. I didn't
specify exactly what I wanted but the
model was able to do the research and
then give it to you in the style and
aspect ratio that was relevant to you.
And that's super powerful. We're already
seeing this.
Um you know you're you're an author.
I've talked to real estate agents who
are using image on to help them create
listings for their apartments or stage
their listings. Um YouTube creators have
talked to me about using image on for
their thumbnails and promotional
content. I've talked to top artists who
want to use image on to connect with
their fans. And I think the ability for
all different kinds of professions to
start to use image on to help them with
visual creation is super powerful
especially if you're working in a visual
and a creative industry. Image on is
such a hack in your professional tool
kit. I think it has to be a part of
everyone's everyday workflow in the
future. This does feel like the I think
it feels like the first time
where anything I can reasonably come up
with it does a pretty good job of it. We
think it's a new paradigm for image
generation all together.
Like if you know we said this in the
launch video if DALL-E was the Stone
Ages image on 2.0 is the Renaissance.
Yeah. Um and I think that is so true
because the model it's not only great
artistically and aesthetically, but it
also incorporates, you know, science,
art, architecture all in one image
together. And I think that composition
um and knowledge that the model has just
means that the outputs are so much more
trustworthy, um are more powerful, and
enable so many more use cases. I think
that Imagen and Codex is also amazing
intersection of the capabilities that
we're setting out to create with both
Imagen as well as coding agents.
So many people are using Imagen as a
first step to designing a new website or
creating a new app. And I think that
intersection of having a really strong
aesthetic model, which is image
generation, in combination with strong
coding abilities, means that now you're
able to zero-shot really amazing apps um
from scratch with both of these tools.
Yeah, I asked it in Codex. I said, I
took my website, I said, "Could you make
me like had the Imagen, could you create
me some, you know, some different
concepts for it?" And it did these
contact sheets. I asked for contact
sheets to that. Give me like four images
there. And I said, "Oh, the one on the
upper right, can you go make that?" And
I watched Codex go make that, which was
like, this feels like magic. And then uh
they've implemented as part of pets.
And so like if you're using Codex and
you say, "Hey, I want to have like I
have like I love ravens." So I have like
a raven. I said, "Can you make a raven?"
And then I watched it pull up the Imagen
tool and it iterate and make the sprites
for it.
>> Yeah, yeah. Yeah. Sprite sheets are
going viral. Yeah.
>> Um same with game design. People are
loving using Imagen to help them create
new worlds. Any any hints on how to do
better sprite sheets? I mean, I I've
tried to make, you know, GIFs
internally. And
I think if I just use like the thinking
mode or Codex, and you basically just
ask it to generate one initial sprite,
it's really good. And then you can just
say, "Can you make the rest?" The
consistency across multi images has been
amazing.
Um we've seen a lot of people try
creating 10-page comic books with with
consistent storylines, um, you know,
multi-page slides. I think that
consistency of characters and aesthetics
is completely unique to this model.
There was an example, too, where there
were a lot of workflows out there
for working with the image models that
you had that were kind of janky, but you
had to figure out how to do.
And it's great now because
I can do stuff where I can like create
characters and say make a character
sheet with the different poses and stuff
and just go feed it back in and say,
"Okay, now doing this. Now doing that.
Now doing that." And that's just such a
It often
Sometimes what we need is obviously
smarter model, but the like context
length did so much for ChatGPT. Did so
much for coding. And then with an image
model, it's able to reliably reference
these references. Mhm.
It's incredibly capable.
Yeah, for sure. And we're still trying
to improve that as well. It's not
perfect today.
Um, we're really trying to develop this
visual creation layer for people because
every single person you have an
aesthetic or personal style or
preference. Um, and we're really trying
to imbue that into the product that
we're building. Um, so that people can
get to the output that they're wanting
easier and faster with Image Gen. Any
any parting prompt tips for people?
Well, one of the things I would suggest
people try is Image Gen thinking. So, if
you navigate to the thinking or pro
model, Mhm. we have a more powerful
version of Image Gen in that experience.
And in that model, uh, you actually are
able to search the web, analyze files,
um, leverage tools under the hood, um,
which then yields a better quality and
higher composition photo.
And the suggestion that I have for
prompting that experience is
be open-ended. I think the model
will go and do the exploration itself to
understand and try to reason um and find
information that matters. And I also
think giving it a sense of an aesthetic
is also super helpful. Um using
grounding that in a style has been
really um fruitful for a great result.
Good one. Good one. I think just being
very particular about the style or like
what you like in general. Like for me, I
like minimalist infographics. Sometimes
I think the model can be a little dense
and so I just
maybe I'm just a simplistic kind of guy.
So I just like very very clean a very
clean look. So I like that. Adele,
Kenji, thank you very much.